Welcome to my NBA Fantasy Basketball Statistics App.

This application was designed to help Fantasy Basketball team managers 
differentiate between players' overall values vs. the average replacement player
using statistcal analysis. A key feature also includes z-scores(standard 
deviation) for shooting percentages weighted by volume(number of attempts). 

For those unfamiliar with Categorical Head-to-Head Fantasy Basketball, every 
week, two teamswill total all of their rostered players statistics and compare 
them to score points for the week. If my team scored 10 points total and your 
team only scored 9, I will score a category point for the week. It is easy to 
compare players when just looking at one category, but what if there are 9 of 
them? How does one block compare to 4 points? What about 6 points and 5 rebounds 
comparedto 3 blocks? Cross-categorical comparisons can't quantified without data 
from the rest of the league. 

In order to achieve a fair comparison between categories, we must use the mean 
and standard deviation to see how well each player compares to the average 
replacement. This way, when attempting to maximize value on your roster, you can 
directly see numerically which players' stats are worth exactly how much more 
than the average player instead of "guesstimating".

Another key feature is the shooting percentages weighted by volume. If Lebron 
James shoots 1/1 from the free throw, his FT% would be 100%. However, if Stephen 
Curry shoots 9/10, his percentage is 90%. 100% is larger than 90% right? Not 
exactly. If Lebron misses his next free throw, his percentage would be 50%, or 
1/2. If Steph misses his next free throw, he would be 8/11, or 82%. From the 
typical statistics page, you can't quantify how much a player is worth for your 
shooting percentages, but with the data post-analysis, you can see how much that 
player is really worth. 

If you're still reading, I truly appreciate your time. Basketball and math are 
things that I care very much about, and while this app is far from perfect, it 
is the product of my passion. 


